
These are some of the plugins that are part of the DestroyFX plugin
pack (DFX). All of them use the VST plugin standard, and should be
(nearly) source-portable to any platform which supports that. Some
advanced features may not work on all platforms or in all hosts.

These plugins are Copyright (c) Tom Murphy 7 and Marc Poirier. You can
use them in your music however you like, without royalties. You can
also modify them to your liking. However, if you distribute them (or
derivative/modifed versions of them) then you must also distribute the
source package in order to be in compliance with the license (see the
file COPYING). 

This software comes with no warranty (see the file COPYING). In fact,
it is likely that some of these crazy effects could crash hosts (by
sending out-of-range samples or taking too much time to process), so
you should be careful to save your work when using them in important
songs. Tom uses Wavelab on the PC, and Marc uses Logic on the Mac, so
the plugins should work properly in those programs, at least.

Here's a description of each of the plugins included:

brokenfft/
        My favorite plugin; this converts to the frequency domain
        using the FFT, and then does a number of crazy effects.

trans/
        Converts to and from other domains (sin, tan, derivative,
        e^x, fft); the idea is that you run this and its inverse
        with some other plugins in-between.

decimate/

        Reduces bit depth and sample rate in order to produce
        artifacting. Also includes a bonus "DESTROY" effect.

intercom/

        Adds noise to your sound based on its RMS volume; can
        also swap samples around.


In the source package, each plugin has a corresponding directory,
as well as a corresponding plugin_win32 directory containing
MS VC++ project files.

Here is a description of each of the directories in the source
distribution:

fftw/
        "Fastest Fourier Transform in the West", which actually
        comes from the East at MIT. A very fast FFT routine
        (GPL).

fft-lib/
        FFT Library from Don Cross. Public Domain.

vstsdk/
        SDK from Steinberg for creating VST plugins. There is
        no code in this directory; you should get the headers
        and class stubs from Steinberg's site.

stub-plugin/

        Sources for starting a new plugin.
